
Install Runtime Locations:

MAPPINGS can run largely independently, or be incorporated into your shell environment in several ways. It can run in a standard location or use shell environments, or even aliases to run anywhere.

Standard Home Area Installation

The simplest, standard, way is to build mappings in your home area, eg ~/mappings520, with a lab directory in there to run models in.  The standard make build creates the home area by default for you or updates it if it is already there.

> Make [-j] build

then

> cd ~/mappings520/lab

to start running simple models.

> ./map52

If you build a home area then MAPPINGS can also be run in any other new lab area, even outside ~/mappings520 and it knows this standard location to find the data it needs to run, but if you run outside the home area you need to run using the binary location which is ~/mappings520/lab/map52, in some convenient way, see below for more advanced options.

Updates and new make builds will not delete user files but only replace MAPPINGS files if there are small changes.  A new MAPPINGS version number creates a fresh home area called ~/mappingsXXXX where XXXX is the new version number and the user can copy their files to the new build and lab or new labs as needed.

In the home area the user can create as many labs as they need for different projects. but only the plain lab/ would be updated if a standard script changed for example.

It may be useful to add ~/mappingsXXXX/lab to your shell path variables even with a simple install so it is easy to run MAPPINGS in other locations without using

>./mappingsXXXX/lab/map52

but simply

> map52

if you create an alias or modify the shell path for the binary.

Environment Variable Location Installation

You can also build in any location and use environment variables provided to put into your shell startup to locate mappings data and executable wherever it is installed. The default location is to keep the data and binaries in the build area or create a runtime area in any other location, then the user is free to make a lab and run the installed copy anywhere.

This is in some ways more flexible but is more complex to set up and assumes the user can edit their shell startup scripts.  If not then consider the standars home are installation above.

Shell Environment

MAPPINGS can optionally use a shell variable MAPDATA to locate the necessary running files, and MAPBIN is optionally added to the user global path to the executable, eg:

> map52

An alias 'map' is made for whichever version of MAPPINGS V is being used and is optional to add to the starup scripts for all installs, so the direct executable name/path can still be used if desired but with a simpler name:

> map

If using standard environment variables be sure to edit both the contents of both .bashrc and .tcshrc in your home area using the for_bashrc.sh and for_tcshrc.csh created when making mappings.  If you have newer macOS you may need to put for_bashrc.sh *also* into a .zshrc to all three shells can find the code consistently.

As user start up scripts can be complex it is up to the user to copy the bashrc template into all bourne like shells (bashc, zsh, .sh)  *and* the tcshrc into all csh like shells (tcsh, csh).  Both are needed as there are a variety of control scripts using different shells.

Build and Install Processes Details

MAPPINGS is built first in the git/zip download area and you can run a model in the build area lab, but it is safer to run the the standard home area or use the user defined installation environment, not the initial build area where git may overwrite files in an update.

Once compiled, the working parts are then copied to the home area/s and some advanced or little used files are left in the build area which most users will not need.  Once the home are is built the download or git area can be deleted, or if it is a git clone it will receive automatic updates. Snapshots of updated build areas without the complexities of git for users who simply want to build and run are made for each git update of the public version.

The end of a successful compile process gives the values in script shell templates to for user including both MAPDATA and MAPBIN.

Advanced Installation MAPPINGS

If the user has admin powers and is installing in /usr/local or /opt/local in an advanced installation those areas are ususally in the system path varaibles already, but any user with experice to set that up will have no difficulty making the path variable consistent.

